'\" t
.TH springboot_selinux 8 "Springboot SELinux policy man page"
.LO 8

.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.\" http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/groff/2009-02/msg00013.html
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------

.SH Name
springboot_selinux \- Security Enhanced Linux Policy for Java Spring Boot services

.SH Description
.PP
Security-Enhanced Linux (SELinux) secures the Java Springboot processes via flexible
mandatory access control (MAC).
.PP
The Springboot application/service processes execute with the \fIspringboot_t\fR SELinux
type (domain).
.PP
You can check if you have these processes running by executing the \fBps\fR
command with the \fB\-Z\fR qualifier.
.PP
For example:
.RS 2
\fBps \-eZ | grep springboot_t\fR
.RE

.SH Entrypoints
.PP
The springboot_t SELinux type/domain can be entered via the \fIspringboot_exec_t\fR file type.
.br
The default entrypoint paths for the springboot_t domain are the following:
/opt/springboot/bin/springboot_service, /opt/springboot/bin/springboot_service.sh and /opt/springboot/service/*
.RE

.SH Process types
.PP
SELinux defines process types (domains) for each process running on the system.
Policy governs the access confined processes have to files/directories and all other types
of resources on the system (network ports, other processes...). 
.PP
The springboot_t process type (domain) is defined for Springboot application/service processes.
.PP
Note: \fBsemanage permissive \-a springboot_t\fR
.RS 2
Can be used to make the process type springboot_t permissive.
.br
Permissive process types are not denied access by SELinux. AVC messages will still be generated.
.RE

.SH Booleans
.PP
The SELinux policy rules for the springboot_t domain can be tuned using predefined booleans to allow/disallow
the Springboot application different actions.
.PP
\fBallow_springboot_connectto_http\fR (true)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springboot application to connect (TCP) to HTTP ports (labeled as http_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springboot_connectto_self\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springboot application to connect (TCP) to other Springboot applications ports (labeled as springboot_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springboot_syslog_netsend\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springboot application to connect (TCP) and send (UDP) to syslog ports (labeled as syslogd_port_t or syslog_tls_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springboot_connectto_ldap\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springboot application to connect (TCP) to LDAP ports (labeled as ldap_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springboot_connectto_smtp\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springboot application to connect (TCP) to SMTP ports (labeled as smtp_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springboot_connectto_oracle\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springboot application to connect (TCP) to Oracle ports (labeled as oracle_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springboot_connectto_mysql\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springboot application to connect (TCP) to MySQL/MariaDB ports (labeled as mysqlde_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springboot_connectto_pgsql\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springboot application to connect (TCP) to PostgreSQL ports (labeled as postgresql_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springboot_connectto_redis\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springboot application to connect (TCP) to Redis ports (labeled as redis_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springboot_connectto_couchdb\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springboot application to connect (TCP) to CouchDB ports (labeled as couch_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springboot_connectto_mongodb\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springboot application to connect (TCP) to MongoDB ports (labeled as mongod_port_t).
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springboot_dynamic_libs\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springboot application to create and use (execute/map) dynamic libraries.
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springboot_purge_logs\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springboot application to delete its log files.
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_springboot_rewrite_logs\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow the Springboot application to rewrite/modify its log files.
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_webadm_read_springboot_files\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow users processes running in the \fIwebadm_t\fR SELinux domain to read Springboot application files.
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_sysadm_write_springboot_files\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow users processes running in the \fIsysadm_t\fR SELinux domain to modify/alter Springboot application files.
.RE
.PP
\fBallow_sysadm_manage_springboot_auth_files\fR (false)
.RS 4
Whether to allow users processes running in the \fIsysadm_t\fR SELinux domain to modify/alter Springboot application authentication/sensitive files.
.RE
.PP
.RE

.SH File Contexts
.PP
\fBspringboot_conf_t\fR
.RS 4
Files containing (not highly sensitive) configuration properties and information.
(Cannot be altered by the Springboot application)
.RE
.PP
\fBspringboot_auth_t\fR
.RS 4
Files containing sensitive/confidential configuration properties and authentication information.
(Cannot be altered by the Springboot application)
.RE
.PP
\fBspringboot_log_t\fR
.RS 4
Application log files, may contain sensitive information.
(Append-only access by the Springboot application, by default)
.RE
.PP
\fBspringboot_var_t\fR
.RS 4
Application (various) data files, persistent across application restart and system reboot.
.RE
.PP
\fBspringboot_run_t\fR
.RS 4
Application (various) data transient/volative files, not persistent across application restart and system reboot.
.RE
.PP
\fBspringboot_tmp_t\fR
.RS 4
Application temporary files.
.RE
.PP
\fBspringboot_bin_t\fR
.RS 4
Application binary/executables files.
(Cannot be altered by the Springboot application)
.RE
.PP
\fBspringboot_lib_t\fR
.RS 4
Application libraries files, such as JAR files or .SO files in case os native call/interface.
(Cannot be altered by the Springboot application)
.RE
.PP
\fBspringboot_dynlib_t\fR
.RS 4
Application dynamic libraries files. May be deployed/created/rewritten by the Springboot application itself.
.RE
.PP
\fBspringboot_unit_file_t\fR
.RS 4
systemd unit files to control/manage the Springboot application services and targets.
(Cannot be altered by the Springboot application)
.RE
.PP
.RE

.SH Port Types
.PP
\fBspringboot_port_t\fR
.RS 4
TCP port the Springboot application binds to and listens on for client connections.
.RE
.PP
\fBspringboot_monitoring_port_t\fR
.RS 4
TCP port the Springboot application binds to and listens on for monitoring purposes.
.RE
.PP
.RE

.SH Interfaces
.PP
The Springboot SELinux policy is shipped with a set of "interfaces" to easily extend the policy.
.br
To use an given interface a small SELinux policy module source code must be created, compiled and finally loaded.
.SS "Deployment interfaces"
.PP
.PP
\fBspringboot_deployer(\fRdeployer_t\fB)\fR
.RS 4
Allows the SELinux domain/type deployer_t passed as its argument to deploy Springboot application files and to manage (stop/start/enable/disable) Springboot systemd units.
.RE
.PP
\fBspringboot_systemd_unit_instance_deployer(\fRdeployer_t\fB)\fR
.RS 4
Allows the SELinux domain/type deployer_t passed as its argument to deploy Springboot systemd unit files.
.RE
.PP
\fBspringboot_auth_deployer(\fRdeployer_t\fB)\fR
.RS 4
Allows the SELinux domain/type deployer_t passed as its argument to deploy Springboot sensitive configuration files.
.RE
.PP
.RS 2
\fBExample:\fR SELinux source code to allow Ansible (ansible_t) to deploy the Springboot application
.RS 2
policy_module(springboot_ansible_deployment, 1.0.0)
.br
springboot_deployer(ansible_t)
.br
springboot_auth_deployer(ansible_t)
.RE
.PP
.SS "Other interfaces"
\fBspringboot_monitor(\fRmonitor_t\fB)\R
.RS 4
Allows the SELinux domain/type monitor_t passed as its argument to connect (TCP) to the Springboot application's moniroting port.
.PP
.RS 2
\fBExample:\fR SELinux source code to allow Nagios NRPE to use TCP monitoring of Springboot application
.RS 2
policy_module(springboot_nrpe_monitor, 1.0.0)
.br
springboot_monitor(nrpe_t)
.RE
.RE
.PP

.SH Author
.PP
The Springboot SELinux policy was initially authored by Hubert Quarantel-Colombani and is now published and maintained by LHQG <https://lhqg.fr/>
.RE

.SH "See Also"
.PP
\fBselinux\fR(8),
\fBsemanage\fR(8),
\fBrestorecon\fR(8),
\fBsepolicy\fR(8),
\fBsetsebool\fR(8)
.PP
LHQG GitHub repository <https://github.com/lhqg/selinux_springboot/>